<GS10> Controlling or Blocking an Opposing Alliance's Scoring Elements*-1THEREDDKING-*Robots may not Control or Block Access to the opposing Alliance's Cap Ball or Particles. The first instance will result in a warning with any following violations resulting in a Major Penalty and an additional Minor Penalty assessed for every five seconds that the rule violation persists. If the referee declares a Blocking Access warning during the DriverControlled Period, the offending Robot must move away at least 0.9 m (3 feet), approximately 1.5 floor tiles from the Blocked Scoring Element. The intent of this rule is to allow Teams access to and from their Scoring Elements. Blocking and Trapping means denying ALL access, so general Robot movement with respect to other Robots should not be considered in violation unless there is no other way to traverse the Playing Field or get the Scoring Element. Also note that this rule requires attempted action on the part of the opposing Alliance. See also Rule <G16>. Robots should be designed to prevent unintentional Possession of opposing Alliance Scoring Elements.
<GS11> Cap Ball Interference*-1THEREDDKING-*During the End Game, Robots may not interfere with an opposing Alliance Robot that Possesses a lifted Cap Ball above the Playing Field Floor. A Major Penalty will be assessed per occurrence for violating this rule and a Minor Penalty will be assessed for every five seconds that the condition persists. The intent of this rule is to allow Robots to Score the Cap Ball without interference. A Robot interaction with an opposing Alliance Robot may be ruled at the referee's discretion to be Inconsequential and Inadvertent and will not be Penalized.
<GS12> De-Scoring a Capped Center Vortex*-1THEREDDKING-*Robots may not de-Score an opposing Alliance's Capped Center Vortex during the Driver-Controlled Period. The offending Alliance will be assessed two Major Penalties for violating this rule.
<GS13> Blocking an Opposing Alliance's Center Vortex*-1THEREDDKING-*A Robot may not place any Cap Ball or Robot part In the opposing Alliance's Center Vortex. A Major Penalty and Yellow Card will be assessed and additional Minor Penalties will be assessed every five seconds for the remainder of the Match or until the blockage is removed by the offending Alliance.
<GS14> Blocking Access to an Opposing Alliance's Corner Vortex*-1THEREDDKING-*During the Driver-Controlled Period, a Robot may not obstruct ALL access, prevent a Robot from escaping, or interfere with the opposing Alliance's Corner Vortex when an opposing Alliance Robot is actively attempting to access or escape from it. The offending Alliance will immediately incur a Minor Penalty. Additional Minor Penalties will be assessed for every five seconds that the condition persists. Repeated or continued violations of this rule are likely to escalate to issuance of Yellow Cards rapidly (i.e. the threshold for egregious or repeated violations is relatively low). The intent of this rule is to allow reasonable Robot ingress and egress to an Alliance's Corner Vortex. A Robot In an opposing Alliance Corner Vortex that is not Inconsequential and Inadvertent is Blocking Access and it will be Penalized. Driving in front of the opposing Alliance's Corner Vortex while the opponent is not trying to Score there can be considered Inconsequential and Inadvertent.
<GS15> Starting the End Game Achievements Early*-1THEREDDKING-*Robots may not Intentionally perform any End Game scoring achievements prior to the start of the End Game. A Robot that begins the End Game achievements early will cause the Alliance to lose the right to Score those achievements. Intentional Controlled movement of an Alliance's own Cap Ball is allowed at all times. The intent of this rule is to prevent Robots from deliberately starting the End Game achievements early. The movement of Robots around the Playing Field will likely cause the Cap Balls to make Inadvertent contact with a Corner Vortex or to rise slightly above the Playing Field floor tiles during normal game play. These and similar Inadvertent and Inconsequential actions will not be Penalized.
<GS16> Cap Balls in Contact with a Robot*-1THEREDDKING-*Cap Balls in contact with a Robot on any Alliance remain eligible to be counted as Scored. If a Cap Ball that Caps a Center Vortex is in contact with the Robot on the corresponding Alliance, it will only count as being at the Low or High Height for the purposes of Scoring.
<GS1><GS1g> Controlling/Possessing Particles*-1THEREDDKING-*Once a Match begins, a Robot may Control or Possess any quantity of their Alliance's Particles.
<GS2><GS2g> Particle Scoring Eligibility*-1THEREDDKING-*After Scoring, Particles must make contact with the Playing Field Floor before they are eligible to be Scored again. Any Particles Scored in violation of this rule will have a Score value of zero (0).
<GS3> Corner Vortex Scoring Violations*-1THEREDDKING-*Robots may not make contact with the Particle Return, break the vertical plane of the outside (facing the Playing Field Wall) vertical face of the Vortex Bar (see Figure 1.3-3), or interact with a Particle once it has been released through the Corner Vortex. Teams will be assessed a Minor Penalty for every occurrence of violating this rule. Actions that are Inadvertent and Inconsequential will not be Penalized. Robots are allowed to make contact with the Corner Vortex Wall.
<GS4> Drive Teams Touching Robots or Driver Stations after Beacon Randomization*-1THEREDDKING-*Drive Teams are not allowed to touch or interact with their Robots or Driver Stations once field personnel have randomized the first Beacon. If this occurs, a Minor Penalty will be assessed per Robot and the affected Robots are not eligible to Claim a Beacon in the Autonomous Period. This Penalty only affects the offending Team. The non-offending Alliance Partner Robot remains eligible for the Beacon Scoring achievement.
<GS5> Drive Team or Robot Pressing the Beacon Randomization Button*-1THEREDDKING-*Drive Teams and Robots are not allowed to press the randomization button (or power button if it exists) on the Beacon at any time. A Major Penalty will be assessed for violating this rule.
<GS6> Opposing Alliance's Beacon during Autonomous Period*-1THEREDDKING-*Robots are not allowed to press the buttons on a Beacon located in the opposing Alliance's Area during the Autonomous Period. A Major Penalty will be assessed for violating this rule and the illegally Claimed Beacon will have zero Autonomous Score value for the offending Alliance. Bonus Particles will not be awarded to the offending Alliance as well. However, the non-offending Alliance remains eligible to earn a Beacon Score and bonus Particle. Field Personnel will randomize an illegally Claimed Beacon before the start of the Driver-Controlled Period.
<GS7> Autonomous Period Robot Keep Out Area*-1THEREDDKING-*Robots may not go Inside the opposing Alliance's Area of the Playing Field during the first ten seconds of the Autonomous Period. A Major Penalty will be assessed for violating this rule and any Scoring that occurs in the opposing Alliance's Area by the offending Robot will not benefit the offending Alliance. The red and blue gaffers tape on the Playing Field Floor bisects the Playing Field into equal-sized Alliance Areas. Robots may enter the black painted Area of the Center Vortex Base at any time. The intent of this rule is to delay the start of defensive strategies by requiring Robots to stay Completely Inside their Alliance's Area during the first ten seconds of the Autonomous Period. The unpredictability of events during the Autonomous Period may result in unintentional entry into the opposing Alliance Area. For example, Robot collisions may result in an Inadvertent ingress into the opposing Alliance Area. Ingress into the opposing Alliance Area that is Inadvertent and Inconsequential will not be Penalized. Entering into the opposing Alliance Area during the first ten seconds of the Autonomous Period that results in an Alliance gaining an advantage is not Inconsequential nor Inadvertent and it will be Penalized.
<GS8> Robot Height*-1THEREDDKING-*Robots may not extend higher than 29 inches (73.6 cm), the approximate clearance height of the Center Vortex Particle deflector, except during the End Game. An immediate Minor Penalty will be assessed per occurrence for violating this rule. Additional Minor Penalties will be assessed for each five second interval that this situation continues. The height of the Alliance Flag is not subject to this rule. However, the height of Possessed Scoring Elements are considered to be part of the Robot and is subject to this rule.
<GS9> Particle Interference*-1THEREDDKING-*A Particle that has been fully released from a Robot (i.e. it is not in contact with any part of the Robot that released it) and is above 18 inches (45.7 cm) from the Playing Field with a realistic intention of Scoring into any of the Vortexes may NOT be intentionally interfered with by an opposing Alliance's Robot. Each interfered Particle will be awarded the points it would have received had it Scored. A Particle that contacts an opposing Alliance Robot after a missed Scoring attempt in a Vortex is not protected by this rule. Mechanisms designed for the sole purpose of interfering with launched Particles are prohibited. Repeated or continued violations of this rule are likely to escalate to issuance of Yellow Cards rapidly (i.e. the threshold for egregious or repeated violations is relatively low). It is expected that Particles will collide in mid-air. If that happens, there will not be Penalty. This rule is intended to insure that Robots do not block Particles in the air with mechanisms on the Robot.
